---
title: "[Paper Reading] NeuS: Learning Neural Implicit Surfaces by Volume Rendering for Multi-view Reconstruction"
author: yijie21
date: 2022-09-21 17:00:00 +0800
categories: [Paper Reading]
tags: [Neural Geometry]
math: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/paper/paper5_teaser.png
  width: 800
  height: 500
  alt: Comparisons on surface reconstruction without mask supervision.
---

A novel neural surface reconstruction method for high-fidelity reconstruction from 2D image inputs.

## Abstract

### Problem Intro
The first NeRF-variant for surface reconstruction.

### Method Overview
1. Represent a surface as the zero-level set of a SDF.
2. A new volume rendering method to train a neural SDF representation.
3. A new formulation that is free of bias in the first order of approximation.

### Results
SOTA in high-quality surface reconstruction on the DTU and BlendedMVS dataset.

## Claim

1. Neural surface reconstruction method **without masks**.
2. Able to reconstruct abrupt depth changes in geometry.

## Key Observations

1. IDR only considers **a single surface intersection point for each ray**. Consequently, the gradient only exists at a single point, which is **too local for effective back propagation**. The gradients should be propagated to several candidate points avoid stucking in a local minimum.
2. **Masks are required as supervision** because the neural network would incorrectly predict the points on the background to be on the foreground.


## Method Details

Overall, this method redefine the volume rendering function of NeRF which concentrates more on the geometry.

Fisrt, the rendering equation is defined as follow:

$$
C(\mathbf{o}, \mathbf{v})=\int_0^{+\infty} w(t) c(\mathbf{p}(t), \mathbf{v}) \mathrm{d} t
$$

where $C(\mathbf{o}, \mathbf{v})$ is the output color for a pixel, $w(t)$ is a weight for point $\mathbf{p}(t)$, and $c(\mathbf{p}(t), \mathbf{v})$ is the color at the point $\mathbf{p}$ along the viewing direction $\mathbf{v}$.

Then, this paper defines a weight function $w(t)$, which is
- **Unbiased**: The SDF value of $\mathbf{p}(t^*)$ is 0 if $\mathbf{p}(t^*)$ is the surface intersection point.
- **Occlusion-aware**: The point nearer to the view point should have a larger contribution to the final output color than does the other point.

So the weight function is defined as follow:

$$
w(t)=T(t) \rho(t), \text { where } T(t)=\exp \left(-\int_0^t \rho(u) \mathrm{d} u\right)
$$

where $\rho$ is defined as follow:

$$
\rho(t)=\max \left(\frac{-\frac{\mathrm{d} \Phi_s}{\mathrm{~d} t}(f(\mathbf{p}(t)))}{\Phi_s(f(\mathbf{p}(t)))}, 0\right)
$$

All the formulas and derivation are complicated and not easy to understand. All we need to know is that this form of volume rendering method reasons better geometry while keeping good rendering quality.

## Summary

1. Hard-core neural geometry method which can be used as a baseline of this field of research.
