---
title: "[Paper Reading] Center-based 3D Object Detection and Tracking"
author: yijie21
date: 2022-09-19 20:00:00 +0800
categories: [Paper Reading]
tags: [3D Detection]
math: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/paper/paper4_teaser.png
  width: 800
  height: 500
  alt: Detect and track 3D objects as points.
---

Propose to represent, detect and track 3D objects as points.

## Abstract

### Problem Intro
Objects in a 3D world do not follow any particular orientation, and box-based detectors have difficulties enumerating all orientations or fitting an axis-aligned bounding box to rotated objects. So to solve this ambiguity, this paper represents objects as points.

### Method Overview
1. Use a keypoint detector to find centers of objects.
2. Then regress to other attributes, including 3D size, 3D orientation and velocity.

### Results
1. Point-based representations perform 3-4 mAP higher than the box-based counterparts for 3D detection.
2. 6 AMOTA higher for 3D tracking.
3. Real-time model runs end-to-end 3D detection and tracking at 30FPS with 54.2 AMOTA and 48.3 mAP while the best single model achieves 60.3mAP for 3D detection, and 63.8 AMOTA for 3D tracking.

## Claim

1. Points have **no intrinsic orientation** unlike bounding boxes, thus greatly **reduces the search space** of the object detector.
2. Center-based representation **simplifies downstream tasks such as tracking**.
3. In 3D detection, **object localization matters more** than full-fledged 3D estimation of all 3D properties of a detected object.

## Method Details



### Cost Volume Construction


### Iterative Updates


### Multi-Level Update Operator




## Dynamic Supervision



## Summary


